hi this is pressure locker in this video
I'm going to explain the solution to the
15 puzzle
from last week but before I get into
that I want to explain three clues if
you compared the original version of the
puzzle to the version we use the version
we used had round disks instead of
square blocks the second clue is if you
looked at the transition between the
puzzle and its solution the transition
was a rotation transition the third clue
is that I cut out the four by four grid
which seemingly served no purpose at all
the reason was if you compared the
original configuration to the solved
puzzle and you looked very closely you
could see that the grid was actually
rotated in the solved puzzle from where
it was originally alright let's get to
the solution we'll start by sliding the
disks around the perimeter of the grid
the reason is that we want to get the
numbers 1 2 3 & 4 to be vertically on
the right-hand side so keep sliding the
numbers around until you've got to to be
in the upper right hand corner at this
point move the second column slide that
entire second column up and this is
because we want to exchange the 14 in a
different position now we keep sliding
the disks around the perimeter until we
get 1 2 3 & 4 on the right hand side
after we do this for a little while
we now very importantly need to move the
14 in between the 13 and 15 the leaven
in between the 10 and 12 and with the
few obvious moves we'll be able to get
all of the numbers in order in columns
on the right hand side
now comes the trick we rotate the entire
board 90 degrees counterclockwise and
then we rotate each of the discs 90
degrees clockwise and once we do that we
will have solved the puzzle and put the
numbers in order one through 15 by
sliding the discs around inside the grid
basically thinking inside the box I hope
you liked this video please subscribe to
my channel you can get my books listed
on my website catch me on my blog bind
your decisions on twitter at fresh tile
locker and you can support me on patreon
for exclusive rewards